Welcome brothers and sisters to JW Broadcasting. This month you'll get a
behind-the-scenes look at the filming of the report on Typhoon Haiyan. You'll
also see the effort our brothers put forth to preach in one of the
remotest parts of the earth. And touching interviews will show that Jehovah
truly cares for his people even if they for a time become separated from his
organization. This is the November edition of JW Broadcasting. We begin our
program by revisiting the Philippines. Two years ago this month Typhoon Haiyan
devastated that country and many of the 185,000 witnesses living there were in
the direct path of the storm. The effort our brothers made to search for and
provide relief to fellow Christians was remarkable. What did it take to bring
that story to the worldwide brotherhood? Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines
early morning on Friday in November the 8th. Less than a week later the
governing body already decided they wanted a video to help document the
relief efforts as well as brother Sanderson's visit to encourage the
friends. With the Philippines Typhoon Haiyan's story it was very important to
turn it around quickly because it's a current news event and all the people the
brothers and sisters there that were suffering we hoped it would be very
encouraging for them to get this story quickly as well as a witness for the
country. As soon as we received official permission from the writing committee
we immediately sent out memos to the Philippines branch as well as to the
Korean branch. We started to engage them in video conferences but I was a
little bit of a challenge because the Philippines is 13 hours difference in
Korea's 14 hours difference. When we first were asked to do this project I
think we felt somewhat underqualified in the Philippines but when we started
thinking about how important it was to do this video and for the brothers all
over the world to know what was happening to their brothers in the Philippines
and how they were being helped well that helped us get a feeling that this had
real priority and we really needed to do what we could to help. We decided to
use a small crew from the Korean branch. They had the plan purchasing it
everything ready to go within two weeks time. It was much worse than we had
thought before we arrived there. I thought it was too severe to be true. Many
houses of witnesses and kingdom halls were totally destroyed. It was not so
easy getting into those disaster areas after the typhoon because it just tore
the infrastructure apart in that area so for example the airport in
Takloban city was pretty much half destroyed. As we can imagine when they went
into this area this was a disaster area so it can be very overwhelming. So while
the team from Korea was shooting we would interact with them given them ideas
of what type of shots to get and be able to focus their attention when in the chaos.
It worked well. We were able to get done what was needed to be done and in a
reasonable amount of time.
We had brought two cameras however when you arrived in the Philippines our
second camera suddenly didn't work. The main camera worked very well during
whole shoot. Afterwards we realized that using two cameras would only have
slowed down our working pace. Another big challenge that we had in connection
with the video equipment was that in most areas that we went to where there
was so much destruction there was no electricity. So obviously we had to
keep on shooting but there was no place to plug in. On one occasion the
brothers at the Kingdom all had a little generator so we were able to rev
that up at night, plug in our equipment and get it recharge so the next day
then we were able to go on with the shootings. We worked for over 15 hours a day.
Our future brothers were always with us so we felt safe. We really
appreciate the brothers who assisted the project in many ways such as the
brother who drove even at the very late night and the brother who arranged the
older scheduling having them we could finish the project successfully. We found
it was getting easy to find encouraging stories as we were interviewing more and
more local brothers. Through those preacher building conversations we came to
obviously realized what makes Philippine brothers overcome their difficulties
and we all agree the same things also made us encourage much as well. That is
definitely Jehovah's powerful and loving spirit. We never became too tired to
keep up our tight schedule despite tropical hot weather and sad situation
out there. We could feel that he imparted power beyond what is normal to us. Once
the team from Korea was done gathering the footage the next step was to get all
of that footage back to us here. There was eight hundred and eighty eight gigabytes
worth of material almost a terabyte which is about twenty hours worth of
footage. Sometimes that's a challenge when you have such a large amount of
material to not be overwhelmed is to know where to start. So having a good plan
figuring out what your focus is that was the first step we needed to realize what
is the theme we want to focus on in these stories. Not the tragedy of it but the
faith that was shown the resilience that the people had. We would go through
the footage and we would take screenshots of some of these happy laughing faces
and print out those images and then put them on backboards all around the room
so that we would keep our focus on the stories of the faith and resilience that
we want to emphasize. The challenge with this particular video was that there
was such an abundance of faith strengthening and encouraging stories that you
didn't want to cut any of it out. And yet we don't have time to tell every single
story. When we looked at the things that we posted around the room the pictures
the images of people the plans the story boarded sequences it was so
encouraging because these brothers and sisters they had lost literally lost
everything and all they had were the muddy clothes on their back and they
were living dozens in the same kingdom hall and yet they were happiest
could be with smiling faces and focusing on spiritual things. We had to decide
which pieces we wanted to focus on when everything was so powerful. When you
watch the video at first you're not hearing our recognizable song or melody
you're just hearing these chords they do happen to be the chords that come from
song number 60 in our book he will make you strong. The risk factor in using the
song is that because people would recognize the song that they would get
sidetracked from what they're seeing and hearing in the story but in this case
it really seemed like the content of the song the message of the song would
really fit very well and so in experimenting with the music we realized that
even when you strip away the melody just use the chords which is what you hear
at the very beginning of the video and then at some point we actually depart
from that compositionally we do not stick strictly to the song throughout the
music score but we borrow from it intermittently and that's because early on
we're talking about the the disaster itself the tragedy itself so there are
other musical needs so we depart from this from the song composition and we
develop differently for a time but later when we're telling the part about our
brothers and sisters surviving working together helping one another that's
when we bring the song itself singers and all back into the story we have an
excellent recording chorus in our Philippines branch we had them audition
soloists for us from which we selected the female soloist that was used in this
case it turned out to be a really good fit taking this story to a higher level
than just say humanitarian efforts it really gives gives the spiritual aspect of
the the help and the provision from Johova himself you may recall that in the
video there was a young girl Cheryl and her brother the two of them lost their
parents and their other siblings during that terrible typhoon and we're
happy to report that first of all very quickly after the typhoon a family in
that area where the evacuees were they took the two into their family and
cared for them until such time as another family became available that is
closer to where the branch office is Cheryl joined the auxiliary pioneer
service in May and her brother is making progress in studying the Bible the
brothers have really rallied to help these children to go on with her lives and
to continue serving Johova it was really important that this video be done
because the brothers around the world needed to know what had happened to
their brothers and sisters in the Philippines typhoon hyan hit landfall in a
country in which we have over 185,000 of our brothers and sisters the impact was
great on them their story had really needed to be told we are a worldwide
organization we're a worldwide brotherhood of family we love each other we
care for each other and we need to know when there's a need like this and what
can be done to help whenever Johova's people demonstrate this kind of love in
helping one another it really is Christianity in action this was a powerful
story to tell we know we're living in the last days and tragedies like this
happen many of us wonder how would I react if if that happened to me and seeing
the examples of faith of our brothers and sisters in the Philippines is so
faith strengthening because we see that even if you lose everything Johova always
takes care of us how amazing to see the effort our brothers put forth to help
one another and also to document those efforts so that we could all benefit our
ministry is another kind of search and rescue operation and we search wherever
people can be found for example in the following report notice the efforts
our brothers made to reach people living in the remotest areas of Africa
Jesus made the bold statement at X1 verse 8 you'll be witnesses of me to the most
distant parts of the earth this resonates deeply in a country of Namibia this
warm and beautiful people are spread across great expanses of dramatic and
thirsty land the people are not only separated by physical distances they
also separate by cultures ancient traditions and historic injustices since
a South Africa branch offers overseas the work in this territory we are pleased
to assist a group of brothers from the capital city Vintuk with a special
witnessing trip so brothers our journey will start in Vintuk and we're going to
travel to Humphurst from there we're going to go to Tumquay we're going to
camp in those two places Hum and Tumquay and we may travel a distance of about
1500 kilometers let's talk safety now you want to keep three creatures out of
your tent animals such as ahinas scorpions and snakes always the pure tent
toilet facilities a method that Moses prescribes for the eastern lights
when we enter the Herrera home enter through the side gate this is to show
respect because they have areas in their homesteads that are restricted for
ancestor worship also they don't like being asked direct questions it would be
better to show them pictures and let them comment
the theme scripture first Corinthians 9 verse 22
said I've become all things to people of all sorts so that I might buy all
possible means save some and that's really the purpose of our trip giving
them our hope for the future brothers and sisters let's enjoy our trip
into the caloric so we've been as a family involved with the Anasantility for
about three years you know just a privilege to to bring the truth to these
different cultures this is probably the only chance that they will have in
this distant part of the world to find the truth
when you talk to them about the truth you see how people enjoy listening
this is something that changes in their eyes enjoy that we get as a family
from teaching people about about Jehovah's it's just incomparable really
rejuvenates our ministry
Arnold welcome to the meeting for field service we will see two demonstrations
presenting the good news to a Herrera and a sandhouse you put that piece of
literature in the person's hand and you feel a sort of peace
my grandmother came into contact with the witnesses through an assigned
territory she moved to the city to attend meetings
and I went with her I learned the truth from her and later we were baptized
I work in the translation office in Vintok and now I have a part in the
translation of the literature for people who live in remote areas like
these oh Shokopitiramobom we are shared to home
we live very far in the bush so I was happy when they came for the first time
I even asked them who sent you to my place because this is the right place
that you are visiting these books help me understand my Bible
really helps us also as a family is seeing Jehovah's creation like
we've been campaigned at the Big Barber Tree
I'm sure it's thousands of years old
really does show you exactly how Jehovah feels about every person in his
organization I mean if he's willing to send in six vehicles
over 30 brothers just to find one person in one territory about 600
ks away from any congregation then he must have great love for each
person in the congregation when Jehovah looks at people or at
countries he doesn't see groups or nationalities but he sees individuals
and that's really his world that each individual human being
gets to know him learn to love him and have a close relationship with him
you know?
Since I'm the only send speaking witness
I will be thrilled to speak to the send people about God's word
because I've seen how much joy the truth has brought me.
The old lady we witnessed two years ago,
I explained to her that she will also be young,
with her fresh skin,
and then she was very happy that she could be young again
and Jehovah is going to make a paradise soon.
It's really nice that we don't overlook the children.
You could really see that even those ones that were sitting for her
came closer and were seriously watching the Caleb videos,
so it can really touch their little hearts.
I am confident in Jehovah's word of saying that all the nations will hear the truth,
even the sun people, even if they are the last ones to hear the truth, they will hear it.
It's faith strengthening to see the effort
that Jehovah's people make to search out those who are yet to be reached with the good news.
And really, that's the work that all of us are doing
as we continue searching for interested ones in our territory.
But besides those who face natural disasters,
and those who still need to be reached with the good news,
could there be another group of people,
even close to where we live that we need to search for?
The governing body has asked me to speak to you for a few minutes
on the theme, Jehovah cares for his sheep.
Hebrews chapter 2 verse 1 says,
It is necessary for us to pay more than the usual attention to the things we have heard,
so that we never drift away.
Sadly, some of Jehovah's people have drifted away to the extent that they no longer attend meetings
or go out in the ministry. For one reason or another, they've become inactive.
Is that your situation?
If so, never forget the words of 1 Peter chapter 5 verse 7.
There, the Bible tells us to throw all our anxiety on Jehovah,
and then it adds the phrase,
because he cares for you.
Because he cares for you.
What do those words imply?
It's true that Peter was speaking to a group of Christians,
so he used the plural word for you in that verse.
But does that mean that Jehovah only cares for his people as a group?
Or does he care for you and me as individuals?
To be honest, our imperfect mind may fight the idea that Jehovah cares for us personally.
From everything we've seen in this world, the more power someone has,
the less he seems to care about individuals.
For example, a politician might campaign for your vote,
but he doesn't even know your name.
It might be almost impossible for you to approach him.
How different from our God, Jehovah.
Jehovah cares for each individual who has entered into a relationship with him.
How do we know that?
Open your Bible to John chapter 6 and verse 44.
Now here, Jesus made a profound statement about those who choose to serve Jehovah.
At John 6 verse 44, Jesus said,
no man can come to me unless the father who sent me draws him.
Now, think about what those words imply.
By means of the preaching work, which reaches us individually,
and by means of his Holy Spirit, which helps us grasp the truth,
Jehovah personally draws us toward his son and toward his organization.
To draw someone, Jehovah must see something of value in that person,
and that means he must care about that person.
But what if for some reason you've drifted away from the congregation?
Does that mean Jehovah has forgotten you?
Not at all. Consider the love Jehovah showed for his people, the Israelites,
even when they were separated from their homeland and taken captive by the Assyrians.
Did Jehovah forget about them? Did he reject them?
Would he ever welcome them back home?
Once the Israelites were moved to change their course,
Jehovah took notice.
At Jeremiah chapter 31 and verse 18, he says,
I have surely heard Ephraim's moaning.
But what was Ephraim moaning?
What were the people crying out to Jehovah?
I will readily turn back for you are Jehovah my God,
or as another translation renders those words,
you are our God, please let us come home.
When the Israelites called out to Jehovah for help, he heard, he cared, and he responded.
Can Jehovah do the same for you?
Yes, in fact, he is already searching for you.
Open your Bible to Ezekiel chapter 34 and verse 16.
Now, as we read this verse, notice four things that Jehovah does for his precious sheep
who have been lost. At Ezekiel 34 and verse 16, Jehovah says,
the lost one I will search for, the stray I will bring back, the injured I will bandage,
and the weak I will strengthen.
Did you notice four things that Jehovah does for those who have been lost?
First, he searches for them.
Once they're found, he brings them back.
Then, he bandages their wounds, and finally, he strengthens them.
If you are inactive, do Jehovah's words at Ezekiel 34, 16 touch your heart?
Perhaps you feel similar to the writer of Psalm 119, who begged Jehovah in verse 176.
I have strayed like a lost sheep. Search for your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments.
The fact that you are watching this broadcast is evidence that you haven't forgotten Jehovah,
and he hasn't forgotten you. In fact, it could be that by means of this program,
Jehovah is searching for you. The question isn't, why are you inactive or how long have you been
inactive? The real question is, are you ready to come home? Admittedly, it will take effort to return.
But what will happen when you put forth that effort? James chapter 4 verse 8 says,
that when you draw close to Jehovah, he draws close to you. That means he still cares for you as an
individual, but it's urgent that you act without delay. Why? Open your Bible to Luke chapter 21,
and verses 34 to 36. The clear warning that Jesus gave should be food for thought for every
one of Jehovah's precious sheep. At Luke chapter 21 verses 34 and 35, Jesus said,
pay attention to yourselves, that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy
drinking and anxieties of life, and suddenly that day be instantly upon you as a snare.
For it will come upon all those dwelling on the face of the whole earth. Now notice the call to
action in verse 36. Keep awake then, all the time making supplication that you may succeed in
escaping all these things that must occur and in standing before the Son of Man.
The message in these verses is clear. The nearness of the end makes it urgent that we pay
attention to ourselves. The August 15th 2015 watchtower offered some thought provoking comments on
this matter. It stated, how bad do you expect conditions to become before the Great Tribulation?
For example, do you expect that there will be a war in every country? No food on anyone's table
and illness in every household? Under those conditions, even skeptics would feel compelled to
admit the Bible prophecy was undergoing fulfillment. However, Jesus said that most people would take
no note of His presence, carrying on with life's normal activities until it is too late.
Thus, the Scriptures indicate that world conditions during the last days would not become so
extreme that people would be forced to believe that the end is near.
Well then, the article said this, we should not assume that much time is needed for the state
of this world to develop to the point where the ten horns and the wild beast of Revelation chapter
17 verse 16 turn on Babylon the Great, the world empire of false religion. Let us bear in mind
that God will put it into their hearts to make that move and this could happen swiftly
and at any time the end of this entire system of things is not far off. Brothers and sisters,
do you sense the urgency in those words? It may be that until now you thought that some world
event would make it clear that you need to return to Jehovah but the Bible tells us that the
Great Tribulation will break out with such suddenness that it will catch people unaware, leaving
no time to make changes. Really then, if you have been inactive and waiting for the right time to
return, this is it and you can be sure that Jehovah will welcome you back home. He views each
sheep as a valuable part of his congregation. In fact, notice what Jehovah says about his people
at Malachi chapter 3 and verse 17. Now, as we read the words in this verse, think about the
value that Jehovah places on each individual in his organization, including those who may have
drifted. At Malachi chapter 3 and verse 17, Jehovah says about his people, they will be
mine, says Jehovah of armies, in the day when I produce a special property. The footnote in the
New World translation gives an alternate rendering for special property as treasured possession.
Imagine, in Jehovah's eyes, even if you have drifted from the flock, you have not been discarded
and why? Because you are still precious to Jehovah. They are mine, he says, and he views you as special
property as a treasured possession. That means if you're lost, Jehovah wants you to be found.
If you're hurt, he wants you to be healed. And we do too. After all, you are our fathers and
mothers, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. We long for the day that you will be reunited
so that we can serve Jehovah together once again. The message then is clear. This is the time.
There is no better place to be than in the protective arms of Jehovah. He is searching for you
and inviting you to come back home. Please, act now without delay. But how can you find the strength
to return? You'll enjoy the true life experience of Jade Long, a sister who was raised in the truth,
but slowly drifted during her teenage years. How was she helped to find her way back home?
As a high school senior, I started to grow friendlier with those that I went to school with,
as well as those that I worked with, and started to lead a double life.
As time went by, what I thought wouldn't affect me began to affect me, and my relationship with
Jehovah wasn't as strong as it once was, and I was drifting away from the organization.
Within a matter of months, I realized I wanted to leave home. I decided to relocate to Oregon,
and this would mean supporting myself and doing things by myself for myself. My relationship with
Jehovah had already weakened to the point where I started an emotional relationship with a man
who was not a witness. Although it was emotional and not physical, it was a very serious relationship for me.
Where we got very close, very fast, and soon I realized that his standards did not match up
with the standards set forth in the Bible. This was a time where I really had to sit down and decide
what I wanted to do to either pursue a relationship with this man or Jehovah.
I still believed in the truth that Jehovah had set out, so I chose Jehovah.
I realized shortly after my break-off that I could not continue in my ways.
I became very anxious. I also was very emotionally distraught, and this took me away from the meetings.
When I tried to go back to meetings, not only did I feel guilt and anxiety of what people might
do or react to me coming into the Kingdom Hall, but also just getting motivated to go prove to be
a challenge. There were times when I would shower, and I couldn't make it any farther along in my
daily routine. There were times when I made it into my car, but I couldn't get the will to drive
to the Kingdom Hall, and there were times when I made it to the Kingdom Hall, but I couldn't open
the front door of the Kingdom Hall. So what started as a couple of months being away from meetings
soon turned into six months, which soon turned into a year, and then two years.
I felt so distant from the congregation and from Jehovah. I realized it would take a big change
for me to get back to the meetings and back to Jehovah. Not too long after this, I got to relocate
the East Coast with a job opportunity, and I saw this as a fresh start, and it happened to be also
around the same time as the memorial, and I was surprised to find the letter in my mail from an elder
in the local territory that had invited me. When it became night for the memorial, I was still anxious,
knowing that I hadn't been to meetings outside of the memorial for over two and a half years.
These were people that I had never met before, but I realized the importance of the memorial,
and it was time for me to make my stand and show I had taken my stand. So I went to the memorial.
There I was welcomed by many people that were friendly, eager to meet me, and really encouraging
for me to keep coming to the meetings. In time, I was attending all the meetings on a regular basis,
and the elders approached me wanting to know if I wanted a Bible study. I had been raised in
the truth and thought I don't need a Bible study. However, I also knew that they would keep asking,
and so when they came the second time and asked, I realized, maybe I can't do it on my own.
So I gladly accepted a Bible study with a sister in the congregation, and I'm so glad I did.
She proved to be a listening ear. I have supported myself for so long. I realized that in life you
can't just rely on yourself. You need help, and she helped me see that Jehovah's always there to
provide help, as well as those in the congregation. Specifically, she showed me a watchtower article
regarding Psalm 23 that Jehovah is our shepherd, that he cares for us. He wants to look out and
protect us, be there to help us when we go through hard times. I also had the opportunity to
have a Bible study with the circuit overseer when he was visiting our congregation. He was really
encouraging, and he helped me appreciate that from my background, I could look to others in the
congregation and help them, either when I see them going down a wrong path, or when they're
returning to the congregation and offering encouragement to them. I'm thankful that I came back to
the congregation, because now more than ever, I feel Jehovah is real and very interested in me.
I've also received many blessings from coming back to Jehovah in his congregation. I found a loving
husband who I've been able to work with on construction projects at Kingdom Halls and Assembly
Halls. I've had an increased share in the ministry, even at times pioneering, and recently I've
been able to commute to Bethel as a part-time commuter. I am determined to stay close to Jehovah
and his organization, so that way I can help others in the brotherhood going forward, whether it's
on a one-on-one basis, or as time of need such as a natural disaster. I want to make sure I can do
all I can to help others. How encouraging that Sister Long found her way home to Jehovah's
organization and how reassuring this can be to others who were raised in the truth, but may also
have drifted away. You too can return to Jehovah. We encourage you to reach out for help,
or to respond to the help that's been offered to you. But what if it's been many years since you
served Jehovah? Does Jehovah still care for you? The following interview will help you answer
that question. It's the story of Manfred Stephensdorfer, a brother in Germany who was separated from
Jehovah's organization for many years. How did Jehovah show his personal care for brother
Stephensdorfer and how did he respond? One day early in the morning, I had a kind of heart attack
and because it didn't stop, I went to the hospital. When I arrived there, then the heart calmed down.
So I sat there in the car and started to think about my life. I was not really happy.
There was an emptiness in my heart. I was racing the truth. My parents got baptized when I was
two and my brother five years old. But eight years later, when I was ten, they became inactive.
For almost one year, I went alone to the meetings. A young brother and his wife,
they really took care of me. He took me along in field service. He gave me little assignments,
let me read at the book study which impressed me a lot and also participated in the Theorocratic
Ministry school. But then a few months later, we moved to another town far away from any kingdom
hall. So I didn't have any chance to attend the meetings anymore. For the next ten years,
because of school and sports, and later also because of my demanding work, I was so busy that I
was completely distracted from the truth. But deep in my heart, I knew there is Jehovah and there is
the truth. And my conscience reminded me from time to time. But nothing happened until that very
morning when I sat in the car and started to think about my life. I started to pray the very first
time after many years, the long prayer and I poured out all my feelings to Jehovah and I asked
him to help me to return. Because I knew it would not be that easy. Well, a few days later,
while I was waiting for somebody, a girl sat beside me and I'd asked her right away whether she
believes in God. A very interesting discussion started and she said that she was a strong Catholic,
and she was also searching for the truth because she was not happy with what happened in her religion.
We continued our conversations, we decided to examine both together religion and to start with
Jehovah's Witnesses. A few weeks later, we looked in a newspaper for an address of a kingdom hall
and we went there, but we had to leave earlier because of my health condition so there was no
contact to the congregation to any of these brothers. In the meantime, we got married and not long
after we got married, the sister came to our door from house to house. I wasn't at all my wife
took the truth book and asked her whether she would be willing to return the next day because then
I would be home. When I came back in the evening, I was so happy when I heard what had happened.
So I took the truth book, studied to read, and I didn't end until the book was finished.
And everything that I've learned as a child came back. The next day, the sister came, we studied
the Bible study. At the weekend, we attended a circuit assembly and the week after we attended a
meeting. The brothers were so friendly and welcomed us in such a way that I really felt
as if I had returned home. So we were so enthused that the right way went to my parents.
We right away went to my brother at the same time, so he was married in the meantime. He had a child
and I studied a Bible study with him. I also went to an uncle of mine and I heard that he also
was a witness in the 1950s. So we invited Tim to accompany us to the convention in Nuremberg.
He agreed, we took him along and we came then there at the assembly ground.
And then I also went to the brother who cared for me when I was a child because I heard that he
also was inactive. So we told them what has happened to us and how much he influenced my life
when he cared for me as a child. And you can imagine what joy we had when they all returned to
Jehovah. At the same time, I decided together with my wife not to say no to Jehovah, to say yes
whenever it would be possible. We became also very active in field service. So in the month when I
was baptized, I owe zero pioneers. Eight months after baptism, I started regular pioneering.
My wife started also some time later. When we were asked to special pioneer, we said yes.
When we were asked to assist with engineering construction here at this new construction in
Zeltas, we also agreed. We said yes to it. Some years later, when we were asked to stay at
Bethel as Bethelites, we also agreed to it. We also said yes. Because of all the blessings we
experienced from the very beginning, we got the strength and we got the joy to put in practice
what we were determined to do. So that means it was an outstanding joy as you can imagine
when all those relatives came back to the truth and returned to Jehovah. It was a joy that many
of the studies we had in all these years, they finally, many of them, they got baptized.
But one of the outstanding blessings was that I got to know my wife. She really helped me a lot
to return to Jehovah and she always gave a wonderful example and was very jealous in field service
up to this day. I personally experienced how merciful Jehovah was to me and to my wife
that he is really full of tender affection. When I returned to him, then he returned to me
in a faith strengthening way. What a blessing brother Stephensdorfer had not only to be
reactivated himself, but to reactivate others. Brother Stephensdorfer kept his word about
always saying yes to Jehovah. In fact, he now serves as a member of the branch committee in central
Europe. Of course, no matter what privileges we enjoy in Jehovah's organization, no one is
immune to Satan's attacks. That's one reason why the Apostle Paul wrote at 1 Corinthians chapter 10
verse 12, let the one who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall. Penny Greene is a
sister who experienced the reality of those words, but she also experienced Jehovah's loving
care. This is her story. I was raised as one of Jehovah's witnesses by two witness parents.
They always encouraged full-time service for all four of us children and each of us did enter
the full-time service. For me, that was at 17 and that I started regular pioneering. At 19 years
old, I was invited by the branch to become a special pioneer, but was really quite a privilege.
No matter who you are, no matter what privileges of service you have, Paul knew what he was talking
about when he said, beware because you can fall. I was visited by an old friend who had developed a
critical complaining spirit. Instead of putting those thoughts out of my mind, I let it grow,
and it created a downward spiral in my spirituality. And then before I knew it, I was completely
inactive. I wasn't happy because I didn't fit in anywhere. I wasn't completely in the world,
but I'd cut myself off from Jehovah's organization. I met someone, he was also raised as one of
Jehovah's witnesses, so while we were both inactive, we were married. My family was so loving and
patient with me. They didn't try to force me through conversation or in any other way to come
back to Jehovah. They were always there if I needed them and I knew that.
I got a phone call from my mom saying that the district convention was going to be held in
Jacksonville that summer. She at the time lived in Atlanta, and she asked me if she came to Jacksonville
to go to the convention, would I get with her? It's about a six and a half hour drive between
Atlanta and Jacksonville. So that's okay. I agreed just to make my mom happy. No big deal, I can do this.
When you arrived, my son Chase was with me, and we're walking, and I'm thinking, I don't really
want to be here, and I don't really think I can see myself ever associating with Jehovah's
witnesses again. My son needed to be occupied, so a lot of my time was spent on him.
That was an easy way out for me to not have to pay full attention to the program,
but at the same time, part of me must have been listening. It was a demonstration. The publisher
made a simple statement. She said, have you ever wondered what the earth would be like?
If that kingdom that we pray for really came, and it was like someone flipped a switch,
I felt a change in my heart. At that point, I knew that nothing else mattered. Anything that I
had been critical of before didn't matter, because the kingdom was really going to come, and it
was really going to make the earth a paradise. The following week, I attended a meeting.
Amazingly, after being away for seven years, it felt very comfortable. It really did feel like going
home. My family and friends just encouraged me. They never made me feel ostracized. They never
made me feel guilty. It was almost like picking up where I left off and moving forward,
and that's how they wanted me to feel. I think it's how Jehovah wants us to feel.
My life now, I'm able to pioneer again. My husband, now we serve Jehovah together.
We absolutely love being in the Hindi group. My children, they both start pioneering at young ages.
My son, he is a belt-aligned at warwick, and my daughter, she and her husband served in the
Dominican Republic. My mom is a regular pioneer. She's 94 years old. She continues to be an
outstanding example for all of us. My life now is truly happy, and it's all because of Jehovah.
Brother and sister Greene still live in the state of Florida in the United States,
and Brother Greene serves as an elder in their local congregation. As you know, Jesus often
compared his disciples to sheep. According to one Bible commentator, many flocks in Jesus'
day were communal flocks, belonging not to individuals, but to villages. That commentary states
that when a sheep was lost, the whole village would be on the watch. It's similar with sheep
who have drifted away from the congregation. Really, they're a part of a community,
a congregation, and that means all of us have an interest in their return. In fact,
all of us can reach out to help these precious sheep. Let's consider how we can do that.
My name is Abby. These are my friends and family. This is me in Laura. Laura's my sister.
But up until a few months ago, I didn't even know who she was.
It all began when I got lost going home in the subway. A woman was nice enough to help me out.
Her name was Laura. She offered me a map, and I offered her a tract. But it turned out that she
was a witness, and I was surprised to find out that she lived near my apartment. It made me wonder,
I had never seen her at her congregation. Not long after that, the clerks had me over for supper.
They're awesome cooks, and Brother Clark is an elder in my hall.
I mentioned what happened to me on the subway, and he knew Laura right away. He explained that she
was in our congregation, but had been feeling down for quite a while. She had become inactive,
and even though the brothers had been visiting her and doing their best to help,
she just seemed to be stuck. So I asked if it would be okay for me to visit her.
Brother Clark thought it was a great idea. I was going to help Laura. I knew we'd be best friends
in no time, but we weren't. I was able to talk to her, but it wasn't a good time,
and it didn't go well at all. I felt so silly afterwards. All I could think was,
who am I to jump in and try to fix things? I have no idea what I'm doing. I should have just
left it to the elders. If they hadn't been able to help her, what chance did I have?
The next time I saw Brother Clark, I explained what happened, told him how I felt,
and just kept apologizing for everything. But he was an angry, or disappointed, or anything.
Instead, he commended me for taking an interest in Laura. He told me that the elders weren't going
to give up on her, and that I should have either. Then he showed me Jesus' illustration in Luke
15 verse 8. Talking about those who strayed from the flock, Jesus said, or what woman who has
10 Drakmakoins, if she loses one of the Drakmas, does not light a lamp, and sweep her house,
and search carefully until she finds it. He told me that the obligation to help a week Christian
was not beyond my abilities, but that I had to be persistent and keep searching.
I realized that this wasn't just a coin, or an heirloom. I had lost my sister, and I didn't even
know it. I knew that I had to do whatever I could to help. But this time, I wanted to do it right.
So I did research, and I prayed, and I prepared. At first, I just tried to make up for how things
had gone last time. She still didn't open up much, but it was a start. I kept coming, and so did
the elders. It took time, and it took effort. But we started to get to know each other better,
and she started to share more with me. Sometimes, out of discouragement or depression,
she could say things she really didn't mean, wild talk. But I just tried to be a good listener.
One time, I gave her a big hug and told her, I love you so much. And in the end, I discovered something
very precious, that our brothers and sisters can become lost and need our help. And we don't need to
be elders, just to listen, and to love. I found Laura, my lost sister, and my new friend.
Or if you are currently inactive, imagine the joy you can have at being back home where you belong.
Why not take that first small step, perhaps by calling an elder, or a mature friend in the congregation
to reach out for help, or even by going to the kingdom hall and attending a meeting?
A well-known proverb says that a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
We urge you to take that first step without delay, and never forget this.
Jehovah can give you the strength you need to help you become reactivated.
In fact, second Corinthians 4 verse 7 says, he can even give you power beyond what is normal.
Time and time again, Jehovah has proved that no obstacle is too great for his spirit to overcome.
To illustrate that point, you will enjoy the following interview that was recorded 15 years ago,
with Nancy Yun, a faithful sister who spent two decades in prisons and labor camps in China.
During her detention, sister Yun was separated from her family and put under constant pressure to
renounce her faith. He turned to a communism. A period of time I was really very progressive.
I almost joined the guerrillas, but my mother started me, and then I was married in 1945,
just raised my children. So, before I got to, actually, I was half Protestant, half Communist.
And then, one day, when I had two children already, steady Jones' first Jehovah's Witness came to visit me.
After I was arrested and separated from my family, and my husband went to Hong Kong for his business
1953. So, my four children were very young, ten, seven, four, two, fourteen and three.
My mother, she took care of my children when I was arrested. And I had such a little housewife
very easy to overtake me. So, he appeared very loving, and he said, do you know why we arrest you?
Just because we love you, we wish to save you. Do you know you are deceived by these two impurities?
Means, tenetons and hurricane. That's why today you became a criminal, separated from your family.
But we know you are innocent. So, if you admit you were deceived, never mind, we can forgive you,
can this do you? Even let you go to Hong Kong, reunite with your husband. What a temptation,
because I've applied seven times to go to Hong Kong, but they did not permit me. But I knew clearly,
if I say, oh yes, I was deceived. And next step, you have to betray your God and
betray your brothers. How could I do that? So, the strong man came in the hand,
kept me at a back. And I couldn't sleep in night. So, I tried, because I learned dance when I
went to the doger. My body is solved. I tried to move over the hand cap into a friend of me.
I could sleep there. So, seven days passed, I was still so happy. So, that night, the man,
they came open the door, stand up. They found my hand, get a friend of me. I thought I was
wrong. So, before I demonstrate and put my hand back, they were angry with me. So, they moved that
to my app. Or then I'd really could and sleep, swallow, and I pray to Jehovah, you know, I'm
willing to die for your name's sake. If you're aware, I have to be paralyzed. I'm willing, but
tell me your will. And Jehovah showed me Roman 131 and 2. No authority is not from Jehovah.
So, I have to show submissive, the relative day of the authority appell. So, 10 days later,
I see here, here, seven days, here, three days, I say, my attitude was wrong. That's why they talk
already. It's a very strong, almost paralyzed. You can see my scarcity here, after 42 years, both
side. That's why I was handcuffed. I'm not a superhuman, even though my spirit was wrong,
but my flesh is weak. I cry a lot, and I prayed, and Jehovah gave me scriptures,
like first people, five, six, and seven. Help me a lot, see? Humber yourself, and then the
mighty hand of God, in due time here, exalt you through all your anxiety. Upon God, He cares for
you. All those scripture really comforted me. And I had freedom. Continue when I saw from
70 to 74, I went as to more than 100 people from nine provinces, and resorted my second arrest.
So, He pushed me to a very large room, full of four soldiers and policemen, and only arrested one
person. It's me. So, this high officer left side of me, he announced discriminatory
belongs to Aspire Agency, and of American impurities, named Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so happy, because I'm nothing, because of my death. Jehovah's name will be known
to the city, because they never heard of Jehovah's name. So, I was happy. I was sentenced to 10
years, because they said, she's the most stubborn person in our country. When I read Hebrew 11,
about the ancient faithful servants of God, how they suffered, tortured. I thought, oh, it's only
belonged to the ancient time. How can we endure like that? But it happened to modern time,
and it happened to us, to me. I felt as a privilege Jehovah put the modern witness at the same,
a position as the ancient faithful witnesses. I felt so privileged to do that. So, modern witnesses
in Germany, they became my good examples. I said, I want to follow them. Now, I was waiting for them
to sentence me to death, but nothing happened. It came to 1978, November 1st morning,
and the guy came, and let me go follow him to the office, ask me to sign my name,
say you are released. And on 27th of January, my husband talked me to Hong Kong, and reunite
with my family. So, after I was released, I could see Jehovah's salvation. I want to repay his
kindness. So, I tried to find where his kingdom hall, where his watch tower branch,
14 days later, it means in February 15th, my son said, mommy, you are to find watch tower branch.
I said, yes, please, and it led me as the telephone company. And he got a number, and brother
again, it was on the phone. So, my son said, my mother wants to meet you. Who is your mother?
Nancy Yuan. Oh, Nancy, she's in China, she's in the prison. We don't know whether she's still alive
or not. Who? My mother said, no, she's here. So, ask her, come. So, I went to Bethel, and after 23
years, I finally back to my mother, and met my brothers. She says, I'm so happy and my tears.
So, I cried a long, long time, and they interviewed me. So, my article was published at July 15th,
for 79. I'm very ignorant and very incapable. Just like I said, I said, just a little dirt,
because I'm nothing. Not only we go to all meetings, or we go to fearsome, or I can't
harm anybody, but study. No, that's not enough. You have to work hard on your spiritual word.
Because a long, long time, all my freedom had been taken away. And physically, I couldn't do
anything, but my spiritual word, the inner word, I have a fourth freedom.
Jehovah God's universe is sovereignty, not yet vindicated. So, I pray to Jehovah, I'm still in
the prison of the old system of things. I never forget this. Until the day, the great day of Jehovah,
then Jehovah will vindicate to his universal sovereignty and his divine name.
Keep this in my mind. So, anything I face, Jehovah, for your namesake, please help me.
There's no question that Jehovah's Holy Spirit strengthens Sister Ewan. Remember that the same
Holy Spirit that helped her stay faithful in prison can help you to take the needed steps
to return to Jehovah. And when you do that, Jehovah will gladly welcome you home.
The feeling you will experience is beautifully captured in the following music video.
It's entitled Jehovah welcomes you home.
We hope that this month's broadcast has made it clear that as 1 Peter 5 and verse 7 states,
Jehovah cares for you. The governing body is wholeheartedly praying that the message in this
program will move many to return to the loving arms of Jehovah.
JW Broadcasting itself has been a loving provision that demonstrates Jehovah's care for his people.
Since it began in October 2014, the response from our brothers and sisters has been
overwhelming, and we are happy to announce that starting with the December program,
the governing body is making arrangements for you to become better acquainted with some of
the helpers to governing body committees. In December, a helper to the teaching committee will
anchor the entire program. Governing body members and helpers will alternate hosting the monthly
program every other month. We are sure you will enjoy this new arrangement. We'd like to
conclude the program with these greetings from our 25 brothers and sisters in the Tarnabe congregation
in Honduras. They face a unique challenge to reach some of their territory, often beginning their
work before dawn to avoid the suffocating heat and traveling many miles by boat to visit remote
islands. Most of the congregation's 70 Bible studies are conducted with fishermen on these
islands who are happy to discuss the Bible on the beach or seashore. Bible students must overcome
community pressure in order to progress spiritually and abandon pagan customs and traditions.
Six Spanish-speaking publishers have made a special effort to learn the local language,
which is called Garifuna, to be able to support the preaching work. We pray that Jehovah continues
to bless our brothers and sisters in this congregation and all of you around the world.
This is JW Broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.